The mini MDC's architecture for Unity.
After years of Unity experience, I created the mini MVCs architecture.
Throughout the course, I may refer to it as mini or mini MVCs.
When I created it, I applied the learnings I had from past architectural frameworks.
These learnings include using generics, having strong typing, using the command pattern and the observer
pattern for a two tiered communication system.
As with other MVC based architectures, we have benefits including it is a proven solution.
It's language agnostic.
You can find materials on this type of approach in many different languages and platforms.
Using MINI provides a more testable environment which allows for faster development and more straightforward
maintenance of your projects.
Some features include This is lightweight.
Part of why it's called MINI is that there's very few classes and concepts involved.
Also, it is specifically non money behavior.
Money behaviors are optional here.
The core concerns extend an interface and there are no amount of behaviors required.
Behaviors become optional and you can use them for all four of the concerns.
None of the concerns or whichever combination works best for your project.
This demonstrates another feature that this is an opinionated framework.
There is a suggested path, but it's also quite flexible based on the needs of your project.
You can massage this system and get the best results for your use case.
This framework is great for production use cases in your project and moreover, it's ideal for educational
uses.
That's why in this course I focus on it to teach the concepts of MVC.
Let's take a look at this high level UML diagram showing the classes involved.
Here we see the familiar major concerns of model, view, controller and service.
Notice we have no direct dependencies on the unity engine.
No more mono behavior is required.
There's flexibility to how you implement it.
But here in this example from my code, I'm subclasses, the Mini and VCs project to get started.
So when looking at this framework or any other unity specific framework, some of the considerations
you can ask yourselves are here.
Does it have any unity specific features in this case?
No.
I chose not to depend and require mono behavior.
For example, you can certainly add that yourself.
The system is flexible to use things like mono behavior and script able object, but they're not required
parts of the core framework.
This was a desire to keep things light.
So what's the role of mono behaviors?
Well, they're optional.
For each of your four concerns.
You can extend mono behavior or not.
So how does it handle the concerns, the conventions in the communication?
Well, imagine within your project you could have one or more minis by default.
I would assume you'd add one to the project, but you could split it up into more and have them communicate
together for a more modular approach.
You can have zero or more of each of the major concerns.
I'd imagine at a minimum you'd have one mini and one controller, but then you could have multiple other
controllers, multiple views if you like, multiple models and multiple services.
So it scales for your needs.
It's designed in such a way that the conventions you follow.
The suggestions are much more important than any sort of configuration or requirement.
This allows for flexibility, but I still encourage you to be vigilant with separating your concerns
and watching how you communicate between those concerns that will give you a more scalable project.
And speaking of communication, the system supports two tiers of communication.
It has both events as well as commands.
Having both of these available as options is incredibly powerful as we'll see.
And finally, what's the balance of rigidity versus flexibility?
Well, a core philosophy behind this framework is that it is as flexible and lightweight as possible.
But to maintain a lot of the benefits we get from using an architecture, there are some rules that
are suggested and however you apply them, I suggest to apply them consistently.
So for the purposes of this course and our discussion on will elect Mini and VCs as our chosen unity
framework to move forward, and a key component to how this information is being delivered in the course
is regardless of which MVC framework you choose or if you choose to create your own framework.
The design principles, the design patterns, using the diagramming we talked about, and the experience
we'll see as we get deeper into this, you can bring all of these learnings to any architecture you
choose.
So let's get started.
I'll give some context for how and why I chose the mini MVCs for this course.
After spending years learning and applying architectures to different projects and wanting to teach
more about those concepts, I realized it's a big subject and there's a lot to learn.
I suggest the very best way to learn is to actually use these concepts in your projects, Create sample
projects from scratch, bring these concepts into your existing projects.
Only then will you really get the feel and learn the benefits of these solutions.
I looked at all the choices that are out there from a unity perspective on the best architectures.
There's a lot of great choices out there, but they're often complex learning the idiosyncrasies of
each framework.
So I created the mini MVCs as an easy onboarding to the concepts of MVCs.
It is indeed production ready, but it's really designed for educational purposes.
So enjoy as we go deeper into it, we look at samples based on it and you follow the assignments using
the framework.
It's my hope that at the end of the course, whether it's this particular solution or another architecture,
that you see the benefits of using an architecture and you have the skills to apply them.
Thanks.